and joy and love and protection that is actually totally felt by the great ones who decide
to immerse themselves. Without that they would never be able to do it. You see, they could
never do it. You're not left alone. Never, never, never are you left alone. The human
being reflects the world. They see separateness. They see being abandoned. They see that the
The love that they have is left, the love that they have is dead, their children, all these
things happen and they believe that to be the reality.
So we say do not count on your eyes, alright?
Don't trust your eyes.
Your eyes will deceive you always.
Your eyes are not the vehicle to be truthful.
The inner mechanism is the vehicle to feel and experience truthfulness.
And those who go this path will be people who spend hours in this communion, I mean
in the midst of their work will be communing.
You see, you don't have to be locked in a cell
to do this communing.
It can be a constant, ever-present, ever-vitalizing,
ever-moving thing.
Have I made this clear?
Very good.
Yes.
Wonderful.
Thank you.
Do you have any suggestions on how
we can come more close to this ultimate surrender.
There's only one rule, desire. Desire is first, second, third, fifth, thousandth, upon us.
If it is your first and your greatest desire, if it pulsates through your being with the desire, you will not lose it.
You cannot be refused. But all of the things that they ask you.
And if you can be this moment I want it and then the next moment I don't.
You see, it's this fluctuating of desire that so defeats the victory.
So the only thing, how then to achieve this one-pointedness?
It's very simple. Work at it.
It's like everything else that you ever do.
How do you become a doctor? You work at it.
You work at it.
And this is how you seek what you would choose to call enlightenment, what I call freedom.
You see? You become free by working at it.
The books have been written. Everyone in this room knows the rules.
You see? There aren't any of us that don't know the rules.
We know.
Everyone in the vast universe knows the rules of all of the things that they're asked to do.
And a human being knows the rules under which he should operate in order to move into this state.
But you have to forget it.
People are lazy.
You know that, sir.
Human beings are very lazy.
And they can get the momentum going for certain things, you see.
And it differs for each person.
But pretty soon that becomes old and jaded and tiring.
You know, even the great millionaires,
if you speak with them, you will find
that this great movement for great money
becomes a jaded affair.
And then something else takes its place.
You see, and this is true of the intellectual.
You know, at one point, they become
tired with burning, this burning mind and so forth.
And the lecturer becomes very bored with the body.
Soon, eventually, somewhere down the line,
They're all the same, the experience is the same, and is that all there is?
You see, no matter where you take it, eventually it becomes a dead, a dead life.
Because in truth, it is dead.
The thing that makes life worth, eternally worth living, is that quest that we are speaking of.
So, just work on it.
And be aware of one thing, which many people perhaps are not aware of.
I think we have spoken of this before, but I will repeat it again and in this instance,
because I feel it's an important thing.
For every movement that you make, please be aware, an incredible amount of movement is made towards you.
You see, it is all done out of love.
The love is a pulsating reality that is so crowding in upon your consciousness
that sometimes we marvel that your brain's the only love really.
There is just a constant real reality pushing on your very self because this is what you're made of.
Because if you were to see what you really are, you are light and you are love. That is what you are.
And anything else that you perceive, I care not how high you go, you can see the greatest, the highest diva,
The greatest God that ever lived, in a poem, the highest vision you will ever see is life
and love moving in total harmony and it is everywhere.
It is everywhere.
That would be the significance of the Buddhist wisdom and compassion.
Wisdom being life, compassion working on love.
Exactly, exactly.
These things move and they move together.
They move in harmony, you see, because one without the other has no meaning.
The two of them must move and they do move. They are absolutely one of a whole.
This is why the best couples often represent both aspects.
The mind and the wisdom in one, and the love and the compassion in the other.
And because then you see they can make the exchange. They can learn one from the other.
Neither of them is the more desirable trait.
Successfully, they will have a better mirror to reflect that, you see.
And this is one thing that the women in the world, you see,
I hope that this will not be taken ill by some of the people whom I hear this day,
but the fact remains that the woman's chief job, and the reason that one takes a female body,
is to learn gentleness and compassion.
These are the two true, deep hallmarks of the female.
gentleness with which goes understanding.
You cannot be truly gentle unless you really love him.
These two have to go together.
And compassion then for everyone, I mean everyone.
And a woman, you see you choose what vehicle
you will manifest in according to what witnesses
that you have not yet brought to fruition.
So you know, this is very funny,
from our perception all of this,
you can incarnate a thousand times
And if you have not learned this one,
there's humor from our view of things.
Because so many of these people who
are doing the loudest chatterings
have come precisely in the female form
so that they could learn the very attributes that they are so
furious-- that they're funny about, you see.
Because one thing that every human being needs to know--
I care not-- you can incarnate 1,000 times.
And if you have not learned this one attribute,
you will have to come back.
And that is this ability--
There's too many keys coming up.
No, I'm not being dense.
There are many more keys on the airplane right now
than there are-- no one.
And if everybody is reading, and everyone is the boss,
and everyone is in control, then there
means nobody to learn these incredibly beautiful lessons
of how to be a follower, how to just absolutely be
willing and joyfully a follower.
There's a tremendous amount of joy in being a follower.
It's just unrealistic.
So I hope I'm Indian.
I thought you were saying you have too many teeth.
I'm not Indian.
There are many more teeth on the airplane right now
than there are Indians.
I assure you of that.
And the sad thing is that many of them
have come to-- that came, took on body forms to be Indian.
But the pull, you see, the tremendous pull
of this society, especially in the West,
the tremendous emphasis of the bombardment from everywhere,
success lies in the powerful.
It comes from everywhere. Whoever has the power is a success. This is not the truth.
May I just say, this is not a true perception. Many of the people who carry the power stand in great jeopardy.
Many people who carry the power in the world as it is structured today are in jeopardy because it is false.
They are building on a very false basis of power.
True power, true power comes from total surrender, of total giving over, of total reception, and of total love.
The person who is the strongest in the world is the person who loves totally,
who will accept anything and everyone in every moment of their life.
That person is most beloved and most fortunate.
[The woman is shown reading the text on the screen.]
[The woman continues reading the text on the screen.]
to their own end.
It is very difficult to explore.
Let me say that many people will not understand what I'm about to say.
This case is really not going to appeal to a great many people.
So I would ask our group to bear this in mind and not be surprised at any adverse reactions
that you might get to those people.
I am going to speak on free will at the highest level that I feel all of you are able to understand it.
And therefore there will be many of you who will fall away and not be able to understand it.
But I would like to because I feel that my friends and supporters as well as myself and my wife will be able to understand what I'm saying.
So without that then I'm really speaking.
[inaudible]
The challenge that we experience can only be understood with the background of realizing that the Father allows you to go out and be yourself.
[Unintelligible]
The only time the divine will and yours are united in harmony is when you say,
"I have observed that following my own will, I get into difficulties.
I do not like the will, the life that my own separate will has created.
Therefore, I turn to your Father, or the divine or the great power, however you manifest this question.
I turn to that great power and ask that my will join with yours
in order to fulfill the plan as you would really like to see it.
Do you understand?
I do, thanks.
There is no way that—
and this is why we laugh on our side,
it's not very humorous, but nevertheless it often happens—
that people on the Earth plane tend to think that God is running their life,
and they take great joy in doing very strange and weird and wonderful little fantasies
that are totally their own and give God the credit.
And this is really not the way it is.
It isn't set up this way at all.
The truth of the situation is that free will is simply something that happens no matter how we would wish it to be otherwise.
[The patient is shown a video of a patient who is in a critical condition.]
All right.
The vehicle is experiencing tremendous difficulty,
and I would send one of the city times
or the other master of whom we spoke.
Oh, yeah.
To come in and look at it and see how it works.
[The mother is shown in the operating room with her son, who is in the operating room.]
I'll take this time for my presence to come into this work.
We are grateful.
We will see how well it works and how well the vehicle is able to work with it.
It may be necessary to have a movement from one to the other of us in order to facilitate
the use of a physical vehicle with a woman.
So, we will present a picture to you of free will.
Let us envision a vast sphere.
Protruding from this vast sphere is a small area of the vastness.
This small protrusion is able to look upon itself,
and is able to see itself, and feels itself a separate protrusion.
It feels itself separate from the vastness.
Now, the question we would put to you is, is there but one will, there can be no separation
between the will of the vastness and the will of the subsistence, do you understand?
I do.
There is but one will that moves through us all as God's will.
There are no two wills. There is not a separate will for each individual, plus a vast will.
I realize fully that this is the perception of most people, and indeed if we were not talking from the highest level,
I would agree with the statement that there are two wills, and that one's will must join with another.
For example, my brother just spoke of those things, do you remember?
Yes.
What he says is absolutely true.
I'm trying to give you a picture of the stage above that perception,
because I feel that there are a few of you listening to these tapes who might be able to grasp the reality and make good use of it.
So I will proceed in the hope that this is correct.
Again, the vast circle with the co-proven coming out of it, there is but one will.
If you can say to me then why is it that there is such distraction, why is the world in such chaos?
Is this going to be interpreted as the will of the one vastness?
The answer is, all that you perceive on the physical plane, the distraction, the anger, the hatred, the partisanship, are an illusion.
There is no will upholding those illusions, sir.
There is, I repeat, there is no will upholding those occurrences.
College, can you take this very simply?
Whatever gives birth, rises, and falls back again into death of any form, is not upheld by the vast will.
Anything that changes from moment to moment is not upheld by the God's will.
The only things that are upheld by the God's will last eternally.
Do you understand me?
Yes, I think I understand.
The illusion is that there is a will acting in opposition to God's will,
and this is insanity.
There is no possibility of anything being upheld by God that is not eternal.
It cannot be done.
God moves eternally.
The play on the earth's surface that you see, that you believe to be so real, is false.
It is no substance. It is form. It is form without substance.
There is no eternal substance in any of the things that you perceive on the earth plane.
I realize I am asking you to understand something, but it's very difficult.
All of your senses tell you that what you perceive is substance and is in form
and has some type of, you have to mention some kind of continuation of it in some way.
I understand that this is how you perceive it.
I am asking you to begin to doubt this.
The doubt is the first stage on opening you up to the vast awareness that is yours if you receive it.
The doubt must begin within you to visualize constantly a world and state within yourself.
Somehow, in some way that I do not yet understand, this is an illusion.
What I perceive is an illusion.
and I will therefore hold the great doubt within my belly.
Do you understand me?
I do.
There is a very old tradition in the Zen field that says,
"With the great doubt embodied in your heart,
you will come to know that all is Buddha mind."
This is a very true statement,
and I ask that we keep it in our hearts and in our minds,
that what we are asking of all of you who hear this,
who shall make any sense of it at all,
who contain within you being the great doubt,
and the doubt is this.
All the great enlightened ones have told the Earth beings,
this world is an illusion.
What rises and what falls is an illusion.
There is no substance here.
Humans hear this with their ears and they understand it not.
So we ask that you, although you do not understand it at this time,
and we are aware that you do not understand it,
we ask you to share the great doubt with us.
Will you commit to at least that?
I will.
And ask the woman and your friend in Chicago.
They need to contain the great doubt.
This is the beginning of the vast wisdom.
We know you do not understand.
We simply ask you to begin the process,
and it will work in its own way.
As you look out into the world,
you will perceive
form after form after form,
and it will seem to you to be so utterly real
and eternal and strong
because it will have an impact upon you.
You will feel it, you see,
but the fact is that you are doing
and are participating in a grand illusion.
The mass movement of all the egos on the Earth
on the earth plane have created an illusion.
When one incarnates into the world plane,
you come in with the understanding that you are creating and participating in an illusion.
Why are you doing this?
You are doing this because you wish to be seen, to see yourself as separate.
This is why everyone on the earth plane is here except for a few,
You have chosen this world to live in because you enjoy the feeling of being a separate entity.
You enjoy this illusion.
When you leave body form, you become aware that it is illusory.
But you still have belonging, you see.
The desire has not left you to become separate, to view yourself as individual.
You have chosen this world to live in because you enjoy the feeling of being a separate entity.
You come to the earth plane and embark upon this illusion that all of the minds create
together on the earth plane with the living.
You agree to the rules before you come and you play it out.
But there are many of you on the earth plane who are not ready to play it out.
before you come and you pray it out.
Yet, there are many of you on the earth plane at this time
who are about to face, I no longer wish to participate in the illusion.
I see that I do not enjoy and do not feel at one with the illusory world that we have all created.
I find it displeasing to my greatest prior awareness, and so I now select by my own inner will, I say,
I wish to become aware once again of my connection with the God-man.
Do you think you understand this?
I do understand.
Thank you. Do you think others will understand this?
Yes, I do.
I know we will have to deal with it again and again from different perspectives,
because although I know, I sense that you understand, there will be many who will not.
And our only hope is to make as many understand as we can.
The last thing that I will say before returning this over to my brother is,
Beware that once a human entity decides that the illusion no longer is die-fine, she will
seek a way out.
The moment she does that, she is now moving back into the withdrawing as a separate protrusion
back into the vastness of the One.
Do you understand that?
I do.
and with movement back into the vast one that you on the earth plane call the spiritual path.
In order to do this, often times it is extremely essential that you have helpers
who have returned themselves to the vastness, but retained a small spot of separateness,
not from any ego desire, but from an incredible love for truth.
and instead we choose to go back out into a separate one, a separateness, in order to serve you.
These are the great ones, if you choose to call them that.
They are great and should be given all due reverence,
because the job that they have taken on on behalf of mankind is tremendous,
and without their willing participation, it would be extremely difficult for you to withdraw from the illusion and return to the staff.
This is why we ask that all praise and glory be given to the great ones who come.
This is the point and purpose of ritual that blesses the Christ, that blesses the Buddha,
that gives honors and thanksgiving to those images, not because the images matter at all,
but because of the tremendous service that they do mankind that mankind is utterly unaware of.
Have our neighbors understood this?
You have, Luther, in one tradition, as they call it, the Buddhists.
That is true. The closest word for this is "Buddhist doctor," because they have been understood to this.
Now, there are Buddhist doctors in all religions.
There is not a religion, for example, you do not only have buddhashatras in the buddhist religion.
There are many buddhashatras in the Christian faith.
Great and wonderful.
We do love the earthling.
The one that is foremost in the life of the woman Christian is the antichrist who has been come to known on the earth plane as Saint Francis of Assisi.
He is very much her buddhashatra.
It is this tremendous light that generates in him that has taught me so much in the past about the knowledge of God.
Your, sir, is a Buddhist chaplain known as Plato.
We are Buddhist chaplains, you see.
Therefore, I feel that the woman is destined to return to my brother.
[Unintelligible]
Before I go,
I would give you instructions if you wish to take a break.
Oh, yeah.
When a woman travels north, it's safe.